---
title: "The Reverb CLI"
permalink: /docs/getting-started/the-reverb-cli/
last_modified_at: 2020-03-15 00:00:00 +0000
toc: true
---
The Reverb CLI is very *simple* and easy to use. Here we will talk about its two primary use cases: **Starting the REPL** and **running scripts**.

# Using the REPL
To start the REPL, enter `reverb` into your termnial if you installed Reverb globally. If you only installed Reverb locally, then run `./reverb` in the directory where the Reverb binary is located.

If you see the welcome message and the command prompt, then congrats! You've installed everything correctly. Now you can enter commands to your heart's content. Check out the language specification if you want to play around with all that Reverb has to offer, or keep following this tutorial for a guided approach. To close the REPL, enter `CTRL/CMD + C`.

## Regarding Multi-Line Statements
*Currently*, Reverb does **not** support multi-line statements in the REPL. This **is** a planned feature, but for the time being, stick to one statement per line.

# Running a Reverb Script
In order to run a reverb script, you must ensure that the script has either a `.rev` or `.reverb` file extension for the CLI to support it. Then you may run `reverb filename.rev` where `filename` is the name of your script file.

## Regarding Unicode
*Currently*, Reverb relies on **ASCII** encoding and does not support **Unicode**. As such, Reverb does **not** support non-English characters, emojis, etc. Keep this in mind when writing scripts for Reverb. I plan to support Unicode in the future, but for now, please stick to ASCII :sweat_smile:.