---
title: "Functional Programming Concepts"
permalink: /docs/getting-started/functional-programming-concepts/
last_modified_at: 2020-03-15 00:00:00 +0000
toc: true
---

This section will go over some functional programming concepts and how they are represented in Reverb.

# Variable Immutability
In Reverb, it is impossible to modify a variable once it has been initialized. Though we can create a new variable, modifying existing variables is not allowed. For instance, the following code will not work:

```
var a = 10
a = 15
```

The immutable nature of variables in a functional programming language benefits in the form of preserving the state throughout the execution of a program.

# Referential Transparency
Variables once defined in a functional programming language aren’t allowed to change the value that they are holding throughout the execution of the program. This is known as referential transparency. It assures that the same language expression gives the same output.

Functional programs don’t have any assignment statements. For storing additional values in a program developed using functional programming, new variables must be defined. State of a variable in such a program is constant at any moment in time.

Referential transparency eliminates even the slightest chances of any undesired effects due to the fact that any variable can be replaced with its actual value during any point in the program execution.

# First-Class and Higher-Order Functions
Functions in the functional programming style are treated as variables. Hence, they are first-class functions. These first-class functions are allowed to be passed to other functions as parameters or returned from functions or stored in data structures.

A higher-order function is a function that takes other functions as arguments and/or returns functions. First-Class functions can be higher-order functions in functional programming languages.

# Recursion
In the functional programming paradigm, there is no for and while loops. Instead, functional programming languages rely on recursion for iteration. Recursion is implemented using recursive functions, which repetitively call themselves until the base case is reached.

# Function Purity
Pure functions have two important properties, they:

- Always produce the same output with the same arguments disregard of other factors. This property is also known as immutability.
- Are deterministic. Pure functions either give some output or modify any argument or global variables i.e. they have no side-effects.

Because pure functions have no side-effects or hidden I/O, programs built using functional paradigm are easy to debug. Moreover, pure functions make writing concurrent applications easier.

When the code is written using the functional programming style, a capable compiler is able to:

- Memorize the results
- Parallelize the instructions
- Wait for evaluating results
