---
title: "September 2019: Project Kick-Off"
date: 2019-09-30 00:00:00 +0000
---
# The Formulation of an Idea
Earlier this month I travelled to MIT to participate in HACKMIT 2019 with three friends of mine from Maynooth University. The hackathon required teams to develop something that would fit one of several categories (Examples of these included: Fintech, Health Tech, and Assistive Tech). We decided to create something to fit the assistive tech category: A new interpreted programming language that would help those with visual difficulties learn core computer science concepts.

To achieve this, the new language in question would have to be easily typeable with no complex syntax (i.e. Minimal special characters) and would need to have an editor with a variety of accessibility features such as text-to-speech and scalable font. On top of this, we decided that it would be novel to include the ability for audio playback through code using a built-in audio library that utilized samples from various instruments.

We later named this language "Muse" and we were quite proud of what we produced, considering the 24 hour time limitation. The source code for Muse, as well as installation instructions, can be found [here](https://github.com/EoinDavey/Muse).

After the hackathon, I considered the possibility of delving deeper into interpreters for my college final year project. I was particularly interested in the educational and audio playback aspects of Muse and wanted to expand on some of it's ideas. This, combined with my interest in functional programming, helped inform my project idea: An introductory functional programming language that can use music and sound to communicate and teach functional programming concepts.

# The Research Phase
I kicked my project off by beginning my research into interpreters. I had never delved into this field at all before the aforementioned hackathon, and this was my first time doing any formal research into the area.

The research I did this month helped me decide on the direction I wanted to take with the project. For instance, I have decided to write my new language entirely in [Go](https://golang.org/). Go has an excellent standard library and is very efficient, meaning that I shouldn't have to rely on any third-party dependencies when writing my language, allowing me to maintain total control over the codebase. I have also decided that I will write my own lexical scanner and parser instead of using a parser generator. This is mostly for educational purposes, as I would actually like to learn how to implement these parsing techniques that I have been researching.