---
layout: single
title:  "October 2019: Building the Interpreter Core"
date:   2019-10-31 00:00:00 +0000
categories: jekyll update
---
# FOSS Preamble
I knew from the beginning that I wanted to this language free and open source. This month I created the GitHub [repository](https://github.com/BlueishLeaf/reverb-lang) and added the MIT license, one of the more lenient licenses. I made this decision because I believe software should be open for public collaboration and free to use without worrying about licensing and other caveats. FOSS is also a good way to expose your software to a wide audience, and I am not afraid of showing off something that I am (hopefully) going to be proud of.

# Automated Testing
For each new component/feature that I write for this project, I first devise a suite of automated tests for that component/feature. This will be a great help later down the line as manually testing each feature of a language would be ridiculously time consuming and ineffective as it would not capture many edge cases.

# Lexing and Parsing
This month I made major strides in building the lexical scanner and parser for my language, which I have dubbed "Reverb". There were some teething issues moving from other languages to Go, but as I wrote more and more Go code I quickly fell in love with how easy it was to write.

The lexer for Reverb takes in reverb source code as a text input and tokenizes it so that the parser can work with it easier. It works by iterating over each character in the source code and checking to see if it matches against a pre-defined token type. These token types include things like mathematical/logical operators, identifiers, function literals, etc. Once the source code has been tokenized, the parser can then take over and build the Abstract Syntax Tree (AST).

I decided to build a Pratt parser for Reverb, as I quite like the way it works by treating everything as an expression, as this lends itself well for use in functional programming. Most of the core functionality for the Reverb parser has been built this month as well, but a few breaking bugs remain that will need to be ironed out before moving on to the evaluation engine.