---
layout: single
title:  "November 2019: Extending the Interpreter"
date:   2019-11-30 00:00:00 +0000
categories: jekyll update
---
# Finishing off the Core Parser
The aforementioned bugs from last month have been fixed and now the Reverb parser is "complete". I say "complete", but what I really mean is that I have designed it in a very modular way so that new functionality can be easily plugged in. For example: At the moment, Reverb does not support logical operators such as AND or OR. When I decide to add these in, the architecture of the Reverb parser will allow me to do so very quickly and easily with only a few lines of code. For now though, I am quite happy with the parser's level of functionality.

# The Evaluation Engine
The evaluation engine is the brain of the Reverb interpreter. This is the component that gets fed in the AST and computes it. As such, this component is often the one that seperates one language from another, as many crucial language design decisions are represented here. For instance: Reverb supports "Truthiness", meaning that any value that is not null or "false" is truthy and evaluates to "true" in expressions. Decisions regarding variable scope are also represented here. I made great strides with the evalutator this month, and it is now in a very feature-rich and working state.

# TODO Before the Presentation
The last few things to do to get Reverb in a great spot for the interim presentation is to create a REPL, some showcase scripts, and a rudimentary synthesiser to give a glimpse at what is to come. I have largely ignored the synthesiser thus far as I wanted to not get side-tracked from building the core of the language.

# A Note Regarding Exams
This year, college exams are taking place before Christmas in December. Progress on Reverb will likely come to a halt until after Christmas apart from minor bugfixes and small feature additions.