---
layout: single
title:  "February 2020: Language Feature Development"
date:   2020-02-29 00:00:00 +0000
categories: jekyll update
---
# The Reverb Project Site
I decided to move my blog and project documentation to GitHub pages to keep the blog and documentation together. I spent a lot of time configuring jekyll, but I think the site looks really nice, and now I don't have to deal with wordpress anymore. I had to spend some time migrating blog posts and such, but now that I've done that I can return to working on Reverb.

# Yeeting the Current Audio Driver
I decided to abandon the audio driver I was using for the presentation in favor of a new one that I've been experimenting with. The new audio driver provide a common sound interface that can be used to produce waves of a various kinds quite easily with minimal configuration. It is also cross-platform, which will help when I decide to support Windows and Mac (I have no clue if this stuff even works on Mac). The only issue with this new audio driver is that it comes loaded with a significant amount of fluff that Reverb will not be making use of (support for writing to flacfiles, displaying spectrograms, stuff like that). To rectify this, I decided to fork the audio driver repository on GitHub (Yes I checked the license) and simply removed the parts I did not need. This decreased Reverb's binary size from ~30MB to ~2MB, so yeah, it was definitely worth doing. Now I can begin work on the actual synthesiser...

# Small, but Important New Features
I also managed to make time to add some features that I promised in the interim presenation.
- Comments are now supported, and are denoted using the "#" character.
- Logical operators AND and OR are now supported, denoted using the "&&" and "\|\|" symbols respectively.
- The modulus operator is now supported, denoted using the "%" symbol.
- Comparitive operators GreaterThanOrEqual and LessThanOrEqual are now supported, denoted using the ">=" and "<=" symbols respectively.