---
title:  "January 2020: The Interim Presentation"
date:   2020-01-31 00:00:00 +0000
---
# REPL and CLI
After a short break around Christmas, I couldn't wait to jump back in and touch up Reverb for the presentation. The REPL was a simple, yet important part of Reverb to build. It allows users to get a feel for the language without writing scripts, and it allows me to test certain parts of the language manually if need be. I also realised around this time that I would need to build a CLI for Reverb that users could use to interpret their reverb script files. This was also a relatively simple task, and I decided to use the ".rev" and ".reverb" file extensions for reverb scripts going forward.

# Showcase Scripts
Due to the lack of a sophisticated sound synthesiser, I decided to instead focus on showcasing functional programming concepts using core language features that already exist. I made scripts demonstrating the fibonacci sequence, map/reduce functions, closures, and first-class functions. One thing I realised while writing these scripts is that they are gonna be very difficult to understand, as there was obviously no syntax highlighting at all. At some point, I will need to solve this by making a Visual Studio Code extension to make Reverb easier to write and comprehend.

# Synthesiser
After hours upon hours of tinkering around with audio drivers, I decided that the synthesiser is going to be the most complicated aspect of Reverb. That being said, I got basic sine wave generation working, which I can demonstrate quite easily as I created a new builtin function called "sine" that plays a sine wave at a given frequency for a certain duration. I'm not happy at all with the current implementation for many reasons. 
- The sound plays as soon as the function calls which can compromise function purity if you consider audio output to be a side-effect.
- The synthesiser is limited to sine waves, In future I would like to support other waves such as triangle, square, and sawtooth waves.
- The audio drivers I am currently using are very difficult to work with, might have to find an alternative.

# The Presentation
The presentation was a great success, although I believe I stumbled a lot when explaining what exactly my language is, leading to some confusion that had to be cleared up. There was quite a lot of confusion regarding how the synthesiser and language worked together. Unfortunately, all I could offer was an explanation instead of a working demo script, but I still think I had a crazy amount to show off in general, so It's all good in the hood.