---
layout: single
title:  "March 2020: Advanced Synthesis"
date:   2020-03-31 00:00:00 +0000
categories: jekyll update
---
# Visual Studio Code Support
I took some time this month to develop a Visual Studio Code extension for Reverb to make programming with it a lot easier. My reasoning behind focussing so much on VSCode is that it is now one of the most popular and extensible editors out there, not to mention that it's open source to boot. Developing the Reverb extension took some time, as I had to write a formal grammar for VSCode to tokenize Reverb properly. Eventualy though, I got it working and the extenstion is now available via a seperate GitHub repository. The current features of the extension are as follows:
- Reverb syntax highlighting.
- Basic code completion.
- Parenthesis pairing.
- Code folding.

# A Sophisticated Synthesiser
Thanks to the new audio driver, I managed to build a fairly sophistacted synthesiser inside Reverb. Similar to how this new audio driver has a common sound interface, I have designed a new data type in Reverb called "Sound" that utilizes this common sound interface. This means that you can now bind sounds to variables in reverb, and as such, these variables can do variable-y things like be passed into functions. Since this new sound data type does not play the sound immediately, this keeps functions pure in a functional programming concepts. In order to actually play the sound, you need to invoke the "play" inbuilt function and pass in a sound or several sounds. I am extremely happy with this synthesiser, and even though there is plenty of room for improvement, it more than fulfills my expectations for the project.

I started to get to work on making some scripts to show off how fancy this new synth is. The first one I made is a script demonstrating the sound of the differences between the first 100 prime numbers. The second one I made plays Clair De Lune, which was actually an example used in the audio driver repository itself, except that it was written in Go, so I translated it into Reverb using the abstractions I've built.

# Approaching Reverb v1.0.0
As I approach the 1.0 releae of Reverb, I think I should take stock of what is actually left to do before wrapping things up for the time being.
- The documentation for Reverb needs to be written, including a language specification and basic tutorials.
- I would love to get Windows compatibility working.
- Some minor parsing bugs still exist.